 ##IASC - 2p02

Ramsay and Drucker's critique of Moretti should be taken to heart by digital humanists: any reliance
on externally-produced data sets should be abolished in the field. Instead, each digital humanist will
show the interpretive methods used to produce their unique data sets, and no two scholars will ever
use the same data to conduct their research. Doing so will allow digital scholarship to fully embrace its
humanities background, foregrounding subjective experience above all else. Established datasets are
for scientists, and they have no place in humanities research. All data should be interpretively created.


 Data, a term everyone in this day and age is aware of, for example data on a hard drive, Raw data produced for research or even a united Federation Chief operations officer. But today we are talking about the second definition which his data that is used in research, within digital humanities reliance upon data to form conclusions is almost as common as computers themselves which are often used to extrapolate the aforementioned information, the data gathered in the ever-growing ranks of online archives filled with the raw statistical results of research has exploded exponentially as technology is progressing at its currents rapid pace. Because of this large abundance of data that is quite easily accessible some researchers have decided that using data intended for other projects rather than gathering their own is adequate to provide evidence for their theses, when in reality this is very far from the truth.
I am strongly of the opinion of researchers recycling and reusing data from other sources to interpret their thesis from those results is akin to cherry-picking results for evidence that only supports one’s opinion. One of the major assumptions of allowing a researcher to utilize a data set that they did not gather is that they would choose that data based on its accuracy of the subject when a researcher could just as easily selectively avoid information that directly contradicts, as noted in Stephan Ramsey’s Reading Machines “Many have observed that the affordances offered by digital text archives represent a radical break with conventional reading practices. For Mueller, however, those affordances may represent an enhancement of older forms of "not reading;' since large digital corpora ‘do exactly what older forms of 'not-reading' were supposed to do: orient a text or set of texts in a larger document space’ ("Digital Shakespeare" 10)” (1) In essence this brings in to focus the fact that researchers may lose sight of the purpose of even performing research in the first place and will search for data that affirms their views while only looking for a yes or a no as opposed to truly understanding the reasoning behind these results, For digital humanities this is a slippery slope as these practices slowly start to blur out the ‘Humanities” component of that title as the humanist approach to understanding the issue and taking into account all the factors and performing ones own data and then using that information to extrapolate understanding from that firsthand knowledge in a subjective view is at least in part is what the humanities is about.

<!--	Exported from Voyant Tools (voyant-tools.org).
The iframe src attribute below uses a relative protocol to better function with both
http and https sites, but if you're embedding this into a local web page (file protocol)
you should add an explicit protocol (https if you're using voyant-tools.org, otherwise
it depends on this server.
Feel free to change the height and width values or other styling below: -->
<iframe style='width: 637px; height: 487px;' src='//voyant-tools.org/tool/Cirrus/?visible=115&corpus=a678509e77a303a186f1fbe915760900'></iframe>

As we can see in this representation of Dennis Tenen’s Blunt Instrumentalism: On Tools and Methods we can see that While research is a common theme the other equally common and important trends that come up are items such as Tools, Software and Methodology, while these are all important avenues to go about performing research it only further serves to show that the usage of data not sourced for your means will lead to misrepresentation and discrepancy as “Biologists, linguists, economists, and sociologists increasingly integrate their methodologies, as evidenced by a vigorous cross-disciplinary publishing record” (2) the cross disciplinary involvement of different yet related departments within education and research institutions is an expected outcome of greater understanding that more than one view on a subject is often necessary. This is also one of the reasons why performing one’s own research is so crucial to form a true understanding of the topic subject at hand and to be able to produce a truly accurate and impartial conclusion on one’s own research this is due to the potential likelihood that data is construed, formatted and presented in a way in which the original researcher can best utilize it for their needs. While Tenen discusses the tools in which we may use to generate our own information, at no point in this article does he mention the usage of an established source of information, part of the issue is the omnipresent nature of Unplanned Obsolescence and as a result recommends that for each case a new program or system should be developed to understand the data within the digital humanities scope so that the human aspect of the digital interpretation is not lost.
In conclusion the reliance of Digital humanists upon pre-defined and determined information can lead to a slippery slope resulting in the complete loss of its distinction of humanism. Furthermore it would serve to cause stagnation within the academic circles of the digital humanities as the field’s current pace of evolution would render large databases of research obsolete in a matter of a few years or less.

Works Cited:
(1)	 Ramsay, Stephen. “Reading Machines.” 2011, doi:10.5406/illinois/9780252036415.001.0001.
(2)	Tenen, Dennis. “Blunt Instrumentalism: On Tools and Methods.” Debates in the Digital Humanities, 2016.
